>> Evan You: So let's take a look at
how to handle this dynamic segment.
As mentioned just now, ideally we want
to precompile the regular expressions
that we need to use before the component
is even rendered, because just
from the performance perspective it's also
better to precompile, because you don't
want to recompile the regular expression
of every single render on your app, right?
So let's take a look at
the render function right here,
we have the componentToRender and
we have the props.
The question is how do we figure
out which component to use?
The difference from the previous
exercise is that our route table,
we can no longer simply use a key,
object key access check to determine
if a component is matched or not.
In fact, we will never know unless we
iterate through every possible key in
the object until we find one that matches.
So you can root force this.
You can do something like object.keys
routetable for each key.
And then you can compile
the regular expression here, and
then try to see if it matches.
It'll work, but from a performance
perspective it's not that efficient.
So let's create something
called a compiledRouteTable.
>> Evan You: We are gonna iterate
through this raw routeTable
which is essentially provided by our user.
And for each path in the round
table we will compile it.
So now we can use path to
regular expression path.
And remember we need the keys array
to hold the dynamic segments.
>> Evan You: In fact, I would have just
called them dynamic segments here so
that it's clear what we're doing.
>> Evan You: And dynamic segment, okay, so
we got the regular expression,
we got the dynamic segments.
And we also have a component
= routeTable[path], right?
This is the component we want to render,
so these three things
are needed if we want to check if
a raw incoming path matches a certain,
to determine whether this component should
be rendered given an incoming path.
So, what we can do is on the compiled
route table, we'll just store it.
In fact, this compile routeTable
doesn't even need to be an object.
It can be just an array, right?
So compiled routes, even,
it doesn't need to be an object.
Compiled routes, push,
component Regex and
dynamicSegments.
>> Evan You: So, now we've created
an array containing our route entries.
Now, what we need to do inside
our component here is instead of
iterating to the thing,
compiledRoutes dot.
We can do forEach, but
we can also do some.
This way we can terminate the iteration
when we find a route that
actually matches.
So now we need to check if this
is the path that we are getting,
that we are currently at, and
this where we need to figure out if this
route somehow, this route and
this path somehow they match, right?
And the way to find out is to do this.
>> Evan You: Right?
So if there is a match,
>> Evan You: Then
the component to render is obviously
the component of this route.
>> Evan You: Right.
And notice here, I have component to
render here as well so if none of these
routes exactly match then the component
to render should proably be not found.
So we can initialize it here.
Or we can initialize it to undefined and
just fall back to not found here.
Both are okay.
And then another question is how do
we extract the props to use here?
So in fact, the answer is already here.
In the comment,
we have this piece of code.
>> Evan You: Actually,
this is using the old API.
So this is already sort of
out of date on this library,
but what you're gonna do, let's copy
that piece of code and paste it here.
>> Evan You: And
in fact you can just do this.
>> Evan You: You don't need to even
reduce, you can just do dynamic segments
are for each,
>> Evan You: index,
props[key]
>> Evan You:
Route.dynamicSegments.forEach, so
it actually looks a bit different.
So, route.dynamicSegments is going
to be array that contains objects, okay so
segment
>> Evan You: We want
a segment.name, right?
So set it on the props.
>> Evan You: And
we also need the index here so
that we can retrieve
the corresponding value from,
>> Evan You: Well, dynamic segments,
yeah, from the match result here, so
the match will contain the
>> Evan You: Index + 1,
remember to offset it by 1
because the first element in
the match array will be
the full matched path.
Only starting from index 1 it's
the dynamic segments value.
So now we've essentially
completed the task.
We've figured out which component
we should render and we filled in
the props object with the proper extracted
dynamic segments if there are any.
And we pass it along,
and this should work.
Yes?
>> Speaker 2: Why do you have a leading
slash when you construct
the path variable inside render.
Why you pre-pin that?
>> Evan You: That's because I think
in the reference implementation we
actually have a raw table
that looks like this.
All right, because in real route
configuration most of the path you do
start with a slash and
because in some cases you might have
nested configurations like this.
And you can even have children routes,
like this.
But that's sort of another topic.
In fact, if you look at the Vue Router's
configuration, it looks like this.
>> Evan You: ID, component, foo.
And then it can have children,
where you can nest them.
So in children, you don't start
the child path with a slash, so
that this can be appended to this.
Because if you do this, this will be
treated as like an absolute path,
that's just, so this will be appended for
you implicitly.
So I think that
this will be slightly different
from the reference implementation.
But let's hope it works.
>> Evan You: So,
>> Evan You: It works.
Let's make it big.
>> Evan You: This foo and
foo is not being properly separated.
So let's make it more obvious.
Add a new line here, and foo 123, foo 234.
>> Evan You: Okay, so notice that
if we reload the page at foo 123,
it instantly displays this
instead of not found.
And we can switch between them and
we can also go to bar.
So now we've successfully
created a semi-working
routing system that can
handle dynamic segments.
And we are able to extract
these dynamic segments and
pass along them to route
components as prompts.
So the next step is handle nested routes.
And that'll be tricky but I don't think
we have time to go over that today.
Some other concerns are for example,
how to extract this matching logic instead
of having to write it in every app.
You can extract this,
the whole matching logic out into
a component called router view, which is
the component that we use in Vue Router.
So you can essentially, in your app,
you're just dropping this router view.
It'll figure out which component
it should render at that place.
And then we get something really close
to what Vue Router actually looks like.